DATATYPES:-

Q-1 Differentiate between lists and tuples.
Ans:- The major difference is that a list is mutable, but a tuple is immutable. The list comes in square brackets while tuples comes in parantheses.

Q-2 What are Data Types?
Ans:- A data type is a set of values and a set of operations defined on data. An implementation of a data type is an expression of data and operations in terms of a specific programming language such as Java, C ++, or Python.

Q-3 What is a dictionary in Python?
Ans:- Python dictionary is one of the supported data types in Python. It is an unordered collection of elements. The elements in dictionaries are stored as key-value pairs. Dictionaries are indexed by keys.

Q-4  What are the common built-in data types in Python?
Ans:- Python supports the below-mentioned built-in data types:

      Immutable data types:
      a) Number
      b) String
      c) Tuple
      Mutable data types:
      a) List
      b) Dictionary
      c) Set

Q-5 What is the difference between a Set and Dictionary?
An:- The set is an unordered collection of data types that is iterable, mutable and has no duplicate elements.
     A dictionary in Python is an unordered collection of data values, used to store data values in key value pairs.

FUNCTIONS:- 

Q-6 What are functions in Python?
Ans:- A function is a block of code which is executed only when a call is made to the function. def keyword is used to define a particular function.

Q-7  What are local variables and global variables in Python?
Ans:- Local variable: Any variable declared inside a function is known as Local variable and it’s accessibility remains inside that function only.
      Global Variable: Any variable declared outside the function is known as Global variable and it can be easily accessible by any function present throughout the program.

Q-8 Explain help() and dir() functions in Python.
Ans:- The help() function displays the documentation string and help for its argument.
      The dir() function displays all the members of an object(any kind).

Q-9 What is recursion?
Ans:- When a function makes a call to itself, it is termed recursion. 

Q-10 Define lambda() function.
Ans:- A lambda function is a simple one-line function. It doesn’t use def or return keywords.
      Syntax:- add = lambda x,y : x+y

Q-11 Define map()function       
Ans:- When we want to apply the same function to each element of a sequence, we use the map() function.
      Syntax:- list1 = [1,2,3,4,5]
               list2 = list(map(lambda x : x**2, list1))

Q-12 What Does The Ord() Function Do In Python?
Ans:- The ord(char) in Python takes a string of size one and returns an integer denoting the Unicode code format of the character in case of a Unicode type object, or the value of the byte if the argument is of 8-bit string type.

Q-13 Mention the use of the split function in Python
Ans:- The use of the split function in Python is that it breaks a string into shorter strings using the defined separator. It gives a list of all words present in the string.


OPERATORS:-

Q-14 What are the 7 operators in Python?
Ans:- a) Python Operators
      b) Arithmetic operators.
      c) Assignment operators.
      d) Comparison operators.
      e) Logical operators.
      f) Identity operators.
      g) Membership operators.
      h) Bitwise operators.

CONDITIONAL OPERATORS:-

Q-15 What is the difference between Pass And Continue In Python? 
Ans:- The continue statement makes the loop to resume from the next iteration.
      On the contrary, the pass statement instructs to do nothing, and the remainder of the code executes as usual.

Q-16 What are the main conditional statements in Python?
Ans:- if, if-else, elif nested if and nested if-else

LOOPING STATEMENTS:-  

Q-17 What are the different types of looping statements in python?
Ans:- for loop and while loop 

Q-18 What is the difference between a for loop and a while loop?
Ans:- A for loop is typically used when you know exactly how many times the loop needs to be repeated. A while loop is typically used when you don't know how many times the loop needs to be repeated.

Q-19 How can I use a break statement in my Python for loops?
Ans:- A break statement can be used to terminate a loop. It is often used when the programmer needs to stop iterating through the data and instead go back to checking for other conditions. 

Q-20 Which loop does not support python?
Ans:- Do-while loop  